
RU is an ethical framework that creates and evaluates general rules based on their net positive or negative impact. According to RU, a student exploiting a security flaw to modify their own grades is MU.

The general rule would permit grade-exploitation which would strip the integrity of the grading system resulting in an overall net negative outcome due to its collateral impact. If this rule is universalized, all students who feel unfairly graded would exploit the vulnerability. Since there are no objective peer grading audits, there is nothing stopping the vast number of students that overvalue their submissions from their own changes. According to George Akerlof's "Market of Lemons" model, buyers cannot trust cars they are purchasing if bad ones are indistinguishable from the good, resulting in a loss of market credibility. Similarly, once self-determined grade changes are widely adopted causing skewed grading distributions, talented students would be indistinguishable from the others, resulting in grades becoming useless. This would therefore cause harm to future employers who are unable to determine student aptitude from academic performance and therefore unknowingly hire unqualified applicants. This would also impact other students deserving of professional opportunities who no longer stand out. On the other hand, this only benefits students individually who would have otherwise scored lower.

One may argue that exploiting the vulnerability is justifiable since "breaking" this flawed peer grading system would evoke a redesign of the system which would benefit future students and employers in the long term, thus outweighing any negative outcomes. However, this system redesign is not guaranteed and even if it were to occur, it would be costly and potentially pose just as many problems as the initial system. Furthermore, due to the covertness of students exploiting the grading system, it may take several cohorts of students before administration is able to identify the skewed grades. At this point, the collateral damage would have already occured to others. Alternatively, if the student were to bring the security vulnerability to the attention of the teaching team and outline why their peer graded assigned was graded improperly, this could potentially result in all the positive outcomes of a system redesign while mitigating the negatives.

Although SO adjusting their grade may seem harmless, RU shows this results in a NN outcome deeming it MJ.
